Improve installation docs (#3383)
h2oai/datatable: docs/start/install.rst

  Windows wheels are available for Windows 10 or later.

.. _Install Dev Version:

Install latest dev version
--------------------------

If you wish to test the latest version of ``datatable`` before it has been
officially released, then you can use one of the binary wheels that we build

> as part of our Continuous Integration process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as part of our Continuous Integration process.
```

- **macOS / Linux x86_64 / ppc64le**

>   The wheels could be Installed from :ref:`datatable S3 repository<Install from datatable S3 Repository>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The wheels could be installed from :ref:`datatable S3 repository<Install from datatable S3 Repository>`
```

- **Windows**

>   The wheels could be Installed from :ref:`datatable AppVeyor account<Install from datatable AppVeyor artifacts>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The wheels could be installed from :ref:`datatable AppVeyor account<Install from datatable AppVeyor artifacts>`
```

.. _Install from datatable S3 Repository:

> Install from datatable S3 Repository (macOS / Linux x86\_64, / ppc64le)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install from datatable S3 Repository (macOS / Linux x86\_64 / ppc64le)
```

  Windows wheels are available for Windows 10 or later.

.. _Install Dev Version:

Install latest dev version
--------------------------

If you wish to test the latest version of ``datatable`` before it has been
officially released, then you can use one of the binary wheels that we build
as part of our Continuous Integration process. 

There are two sources available:

- For macOS and Linux please use our `S3 repository`_. 

- For Windows installations, you can find the latest wheels within our

>   `AppVeyor`_ build system.

Reviewer: I would not call this "sources", but rather structure this section in the same way as above. Something like this may work:
```
- **macOS / Linux x86_64 / ppc64le**
  The wheels could be Installed from :ref:`datatable S3 repository<Install from datatable S3 repository>`
- **Windows**
  The wheels could be Installed from :ref:`datatable AppVeyor account<Install from datatable AppVeyor artifacts>`
```

> Install from the Amazon S3 Repository (macOS & Linux)

Reviewer: Then call this section "Install from datatable S3 repository".

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
First it is **recommended** to :ref:`Create a Python Virtual Environment<PVE Linux & macOS>`.

Both the most current and historical development wheels for macOS & Linux can 
be found at our `S3 repository`_.

> - To install the most current development version, **scroll to the bottom** of 
>   the page to find the latest links, and then download or copy the URL of a
>   wheel that corresponds to your Python version and platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The most current development version can be found at the bottom of the page. Copy the URL of a wheel that corresponds to your Python version and platform:
```

>   .. image:: ../_static/amazon_s3_repo.png

Reviewer: May be hide the bookmarks toolbar when making this screenshot.

    :scale: 25 %
    :alt: datatable S3 binary wheel links

- This wheel can be installed with ``pip`` as usual:

.. code-block:: console

>     $ pip install https://AWS S3 DATATABLE BUILD WHEEL URL.whl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ pip install S3_DATATABLE_WHEEL_URL
```

Reviewer: And then add something like
```
You can also download the wheel and then install it locally as

.. code-block:: console
    $ pip install S3_DATATABLE_WHEEL
```

Install from AppVeyor (Windows)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

First it is **recommended** to :ref:`Create a Python Virtual Environment<PVE Windows>`.

- To find the latest build wheels for datatable, go to datatable's `AppVeyor`_ 

>   CI/CD Instance and select the platform you're installing for:

Reviewer: This will only show you the most recent build. It could be a `main` build or a PR build. It could also be a failed build. What really needs to be done is that part you have removed here:
https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/pull/3383/files#diff-0efa84325a40cac71ec0eadd2f2eec4890f28d0acac6e41a7c633d950c2d173dL78-L81

  .. image:: ../_static/appveyor-platform.png
    :scale: 25 %
    :alt: datatable appveyor platform links

> - next, select **"Artifacts"** and **right/option-click** on the filename for 
>   your desired build wheel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- next, select **"Artifacts"** and **right/option-click** on the filename for 
  your desired Python version.
```

- then, Select "Copy Link Address" from your browser's context menu to copy 
  the wheel's URL

  .. image:: ../_static/appveyor-artifacts.png
    :scale: 25 %
    :alt: datatable appveyor artifact links

- Finally, install using :code:`pip install` by pasting the copied url.

.. code-block:: doscon

>     C:\> pip install https://APPVEYOR DATATABLE BUILD WHEEL URL.whl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    C:\> pip install APPVEYOR_DATATABLE_WHEEL_URL
```

    :scale: 25 %
    :alt: datatable appveyor platform links

- next, select **"Artifacts"** and **right/option-click** on the filename for 
  your desired build wheel.
- then, Select "Copy Link Address" from your browser's context menu to copy 
  the wheel's URL

  .. image:: ../_static/appveyor-artifacts.png
    :scale: 25 %
    :alt: datatable appveyor artifact links

- Finally, install using :code:`pip install` by pasting the copied url.

.. code-block:: doscon

    C:\> pip install https://APPVEYOR DATATABLE BUILD WHEEL URL.whl

.. code-block:: console

>    $ pip install git+https://github.com/h2oai/datatable

Reviewer: Since this is a common part for macOS / Linux / Windows, why to remove it? May be just leave it, then call the following sections "Installing/configuring C++ compiler" for various platforms?

Build for MacOS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- For MacOS you will need to install the ``XCode Command Line Tools``
- run :code:`xcode-select --install`` from your terminal and confirm the 
  prompts for download and installation of the xcode command-line tools.

.. code-block:: console

  $ xcode-select --install

- Then install datatable directly from github from using 
  :code:`pip install git+https://...`

- **Recommended:** :ref:`Create a Python Virtual Environment<PVE Linux & MacOS>`.

.. code-block:: console

  $ pip install git+https://github.com/h2oai/datatable

Build for Windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- In order to install the MSVC C++ compiler, you need to download and install 
  `Visual Studio`_ or `Visual Studio Community Edition`_ and choose the option 
  `Desktop Development with C++`, then select **install**.

- Next, your shell must have the MSVC development tools available. To enable
  them, you must run the MS Dev environment setup scripts (usually located in
  the :code:`...\\Common7\\Tools\\` directory of your Visual Studio installation 
  directory)

  - e.g. :code:`C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Visual Studio\\2022\\Community\\Common7\\Tools\\`

> - Depending on your shell, Run the VS CLI environment setup script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Depending on your shell, run the VS CLI environment setup script:
```

  - Powershell

  .. code-block:: powershell

    > "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\Community\Common7\Tools\Launch-VsDevShell.ps1"

  - CMD or Anaconda Prompt

  .. code-block:: doscon

    C:\> "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\Community\Common7\Tools\LaunchDevCmd.bat"

> - Lastly, On windows, Datatable uses an shell environment variable to find the

Reviewer: We try to spell datatable all lowercase.

> - Lastly, On windows, Datatable uses an shell environment variable to find the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lastly, on Windows, datatable uses an environment variable to find the
```

- GCC 6+;
- MSVC 19.14+.

Build for Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Install GCC for your distribution:

  - Debian/Ubuntu:

  .. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install build-essential

  - RHEL/CentOS:

  .. code-block:: console

    $ sudo dnf group install "Development Tools"

    # or

    $ sudo yum groupinstall "Development tools"

- **Recommended:** :ref:`Create a Python Virtual Environment<PVE Linux & macOS>`.

> - Then install datatable directly from github from using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Then install datatable directly from github as
```

- Then install datatable directly from github as 
  :code:`pip install git+https://...`

.. code-block:: console

  $ pip install git+https://github.com/h2oai/datatable

Build for macOS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- For macOS you will need to install the ``XCode Command Line Tools``
- run :code:`xcode-select --install`` from your terminal and confirm the 
  prompts for download and installation of the xcode command-line tools.

.. code-block:: console

  $ xcode-select --install

- Then install datatable directly from github from using 
  :code:`pip install git+https://...`

.. code-block:: console

  $ pip install git+https://github.com/h2oai/datatable

Build for Windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- In order to install the MSVC C++ compiler, you need to download and install 
  `Visual Studio`_ or `Visual Studio Community Edition`_ and choose the option 
  `Desktop Development with C++`, then select **install**.

- Next, your shell must have the MSVC development tools available. To enable
  them, you must run the MS Dev environment setup scripts (usually located in
  the :code:`...\\Common7\\Tools\\` directory of your Visual Studio installation 
  directory)

>   - e.g. :code:`C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Visual Studio\\2022\\Community\\Common7\\Tools\\`

Reviewer: Have you tried to build datatable on Windows with VS 2022? We are currently using VS 2019 for Windows wheels and I don't think we ever tested VS 2022.

- Depending on your shell, run the VS CLI environment setup script:

  - Powershell

  .. code-block:: powershell

    > "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\Community\Common7\Tools\Launch-VsDevShell.ps1"

  - CMD or Anaconda Prompt

  .. code-block:: doscon

    C:\> "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\Community\Common7\Tools\LaunchDevCmd.bat"

- Lastly, On windows, datatable uses an environment variable to find the
  MSVC compiler, so you must set that variable.

  - Powershell

  .. code-block:: powershell

    > $env:DT_MSVC_PATH="$env:VSINSTALLDIR"+"VC\Tools\MSVC\"

  - CMD or Anaconda Prompt

  .. code-block:: doscon

>     C:\> set DT_MSVC_PATH=%VSINSTALLDIR%VC\Tools\MSVC\

Reviewer: For VS 2019 this works out of the box: 
https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/blob/main/ci/xbuild/compiler.py#L145-L148

I guess we need to test dt with other VS versions and, if it works, add support to automatically discover VS folders other than 2019-th.

  The most likely cause of this error is a misconfigured ``PYTHONPATH``
  environment variable. Unset that variable and try again.

``ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'gendoc'``
  Check your python version with ``python --version``. if you are running 
  ``python3.10``, you will need to :ref:`install the latest dev version<Install Dev Version>`
  or :ref:`build from source<Install from Source>` or revert to ``python3.9``.

  - This issue is resolved by `Include gendoc file into the source distribution (#3151)`_ is

>     currently available in the :ref:`latest development version<Install Dev Version>`.

Reviewer: There are quite a lot of bugs that have been fixed from the time we released datatable `1.0.0`, I'm not sure if we want to list them all here...

``ImportError: DLL load failed while importing _datatable: The specified module could not be found.``
  Check your python version with ``python --version``. If you are running 
  ``python3.11``, you will need to revert to ``python3.9``. Alternatively, you may 
  use ``python3.10`` and :ref:`install the latest dev version<Install Dev Version>`

>   or :ref:`build from source<Install from Source>`.

Reviewer: As of https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/pull/3395 we support Python `3.11` and dev wheels for all the platforms are available on AppVeyor.

  The most likely cause of this error is a misconfigured ``PYTHONPATH``
  environment variable. Unset that variable and try again.

``ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'gendoc'``
  Check your python version with ``python --version``. if you are running 
  ``python3.10``, you will need to :ref:`install the latest dev version<Install Dev Version>`
  or :ref:`build from source<Install from Source>` or revert to ``python3.9``.

  - This issue is resolved by `Include gendoc file into the source distribution (#3151)`_ is
    currently available in the :ref:`latest development version<Install Dev Version>`.

``ImportError: DLL load failed while importing _datatable: The specified module could not be found.``
  Check your python version with ``python --version``. If you are running 
  ``python3.11``, you will need to revert to ``python3.9``. Alternatively, you may 
  use ``python3.10`` and :ref:`install the latest dev version<Install Dev Version>`
  or :ref:`build from source<Install from Source>`.

  - This issue is an active feature request to `add support for python 3.11 (#3374)`_
    and will be included in `Release 1.1.0`_ of datatable. 

.. _PVE:

> Appendix: Creating a Python Virtual Environment

Reviewer: If you do think this may be useful for datatable users, may be just put a couple of external links to venv documentation? Like installing venv on different platforms.

.. _`StackOverflow`: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/py-datatable

.. _`GitHub`: https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/issues

.. _`Visual Studio`: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/

.. _`Visual Studio Community Edition`: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/

.. _`Include gendoc file into the source distribution (#3151)`: https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/pull/3151

> .. _`add support for python 3.11 (#3374)`: https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/issues/3374

Reviewer: Already added.

.. _`PyPI`: https://pypi.org/

> .. _`AppVeyor`: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/h2oops/datatable/

Reviewer: All the builds are available under the "History" tab, so I wouldn't change this link.
